Update docs/monthly-meeting/2023-12.md (#96)
python/docs-community: docs/monthly-meeting/2023-12.md

- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!

## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` *[/ Discord, if different]*)
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Daniele Procida / `@danieleprocida`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Jim DeLaHunt / `@JDLH`
- Ryan Duve / `@ryan-duve`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Bradley / `@shenanigansd`
- Ezio Melotti / `@ezio-melotti`
- CAM Gerlach / `@CAM-Gerlach`
- Usman Akinyemi / `@Unique-Usman`

## Discussion

* [Ryan] standard library documentation reference and adding types to it in a structured way.  For example, `collections.Counter.most_common` could be written

      most_common(n: int) -> list[tuple[Any, int]]

  [Petr] ... or `list[tuple[KeyType, int]]`?

>   - this has been discussed. There was opposition to adding the types to the stdlib code itself.

Reviewer: Is there a source or a link to the discussion? It'd be nice if we could add it here.

Author: @hugovk

Reviewer 2: I don't know where it is.

Author: @encukou

Reviewer 3: Can't find it on Discourse.  I guess it was too long ago, and might need new discussion -- the situation has changed in the mean time :)
Let me know if you want to work on a proposal, I can dig through mailing list archives from the 2010's for links to past discussions.

Author: Yeah, I will like to @encukou. Thanks.

> * [Ryan] standard library documentation reference and adding types to it in a structured way.  For example, `collections.Counter.most_common` could be written
> 
>       most_common(n: int) -> list[tuple[Any, int]]
> 
>   [Petr] ... or `list[tuple[KeyType, int]]`?
> 
>   - this has been discussed. There was opposition to adding the types to the stdlib code itself.
>   - [JDLH] I sometimes wish for more normative, less chatty module documentation. e.g. [*heapq* module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/heapq.html). e.g. old issue 29428 [*Doctest documentation unclear about multi-line fixtures*](https://bugs.python.org/issue29428).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Ryan] Standard library documentation reference and adding types to it in a structured way. For example, `collections.Counter.most_common` could be written as `most_common(n: int) -> list[tuple[Any, int]]`.
  - [Petr] ... or `list[tuple[KeyType, int]]`?
  - This has been discussed. There was opposition to adding the types to the stdlib code itself.
  - [Jim] I sometimes wish for more normative, less chatty module documentation:
    - e.g. [*heapq* module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/heapq.html)
    - e.g. old issue 29428 [*Doctest documentation unclear about multi-line fixtures*](https://bugs.python.org/issue29428)
```

> * [Petr] Use emoji to illustrate good and bad example commit messages
>   * https://devguide.python.org/getting-started/git-boot-camp/#accepting-and-merging-a-pull-request
>   * [python/devguide#1235](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1235)
>   * Should we do this for PEPs? see [python/docs-community#22](https://github.com/python/docs-community/issues/22)
>   * [Hugo] See also [python/peps#3567](https://github.com/python/peps/pull/3567) for green/red sidebars for good/bad example code in PEPs
>   * [JDLH] don't forget accessibility constraints when coming up with the style guide. e.g. some readers are red/green colorblind. ✅❌ are good in that they are legible even without color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Petr] Use emoji to illustrate good and bad example commit messages
  - https://devguide.python.org/getting-started/git-boot-camp/#accepting-and-merging-a-pull-request
  - [python/devguide#1235](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1235)
  - Should we do this for PEPs? See [python/docs-community#22](https://github.com/python/docs-community/issues/22)
  - [Hugo] See also [python/peps#3567](https://github.com/python/peps/pull/3567) for green/red sidebars for good/bad example code in PEPs
  - [Jim] don't forget accessibility constraints when coming up with the style guide. For example, some readers are red/green colorblind. ✅/❌ are good in that they are legible even without color.
```

> * [Ryan] Thoughts about completing TOML->JSON conversion table: https://docs.python.org/3/library/tomllib.html#conversion-table and the TOML spec: https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0#spec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Ryan] Thoughts about completing TOML->JSON [conversion table](https://docs.python.org/3/library/tomllib.html#conversion-table) and [the TOML spec](https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0#spec).
```

## Reports and celebrations

- PEP 732 ("The Python Documentation Editorial Board") has been submitted to the steering council [python/steering-council#220](https://github.com/python/steering-council/issues/220)

> - [Jim] FYI, Unicode Standard is changing form of authoritative standard documents from PDF to HTML, with corresponding change to document production tooling. If this is interesting I can provide more info. I am in the working group which is working on the new tooling.

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't that use `[JDLH]`, like above? Or (my preference) use `[Jim]` throughout?

Reviewer: We normally use names rather than usernames.

Reviewer 2: @jdlh Which do you prefer?

Reviewer 5: We normally use names rather than usernames. That is humane of us, and I am glad to join in. So therefore I am "Jim". In addition to being a username, "JDLH" is also what I use as initials (abbreviated signature). I appreciate you asking, Hugo @hugovk .

> - [Jim] FYI, Unicode Standard is changing form of authoritative standard documents from PDF to HTML, with corresponding change to document production tooling. If this is interesting I can provide more info. I am in the working group which is working on the new tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Jim] FYI, Unicode Standard is changing form of authoritative standard documents from PDF to HTML, with corresponding change to document production tooling. If this is interesting I can provide more information. I am in the working group which is working on the new tooling.
```

## Follow-ups from previous meeting(s)

> * [Petr] [Railroad diagrams](https://discuss.python.org/t/36709/20)
>   * Streams have kinda been on other topics too

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Petr] [Railroad diagrams](https://discuss.python.org/t/36709/20)
  - Streams have kind of been on other topics too
```

> * Analytics (Plausible) - CAM sent an e-mail, no reply yet
>     * CAM sent multiple follow-ups
>     * Hugo sent a follow-up two weeks ago
>     * Discussion on core dev Discord that is supportive
>     * Still no reply... :(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Ege/Hugo/CAM] Analytics (Plausible) - CAM sent an e-mail (around late October), no reply yet
  - CAM sent multiple follow-ups
  - Hugo sent a follow-up two weeks ago
  - Discussion on core dev Discord that is supportive
  - Still no reply... :(
```

> * As a beginner, what's a good starting point?
>   * There are some "easy" issues, although they can occasionally not be actually-easy.
>   * Interested in documentation, look at Diátaxis and make changes?
>     * Diátaxis is kinda abstract for newcomers.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove this if it wasn't discussed again in the meeting. (Checking the previous month's meeting notes, seems like there is no further addition to this one)

## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Tuesday of every month around 20:00-ish UTC.

>  * [JDLH] The first Tuesday of next month is 2 January. Will we be ready for this meeting on the day after New Year's Day? Answer: Basically yes; those who are ready will show up, others won't.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- [Jim] The first Tuesday of next month is 2 January. Will we be ready for this meeting on the day after New Year's Day? Answer: Basically yes; those who are ready will show up, others won't.
```

- Usman Akinyemi / `@Unique-Usman`

## Discussion

* [Ryan] standard library documentation reference and adding types to it in a structured way.  For example, `collections.Counter.most_common` could be written

      most_common(n: int) -> list[tuple[Any, int]]

  [Petr] ... or `list[tuple[KeyType, int]]`?

  - this has been discussed. There was opposition to adding the types to the stdlib code itself.
  - [JDLH] I sometimes wish for more normative, less chatty module documentation. e.g. [*heapq* module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/heapq.html). e.g. old issue 29428 [*Doctest documentation unclear about multi-line fixtures*](https://bugs.python.org/issue29428).

* [Petr] Use emoji to illustrate good and bad example commit messages
  * https://devguide.python.org/getting-started/git-boot-camp/#accepting-and-merging-a-pull-request
  * [python/devguide#1235](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1235)
  * Should we do this for PEPs? see [python/docs-community#22](https://github.com/python/docs-community/issues/22)
  * [Hugo] See also [python/peps#3567](https://github.com/python/peps/pull/3567) for green/red sidebars for good/bad example code in PEPs

>   * [JDLH] don't forget accessibility constraints when coming up with the style guide. e.g. some readers are red/green colourblind. ✅❌ are good in that they are legible even without colour.

Reviewer 6: Do we care about color vs colour?  I think we usually use AE.
```suggestion
  * [JDLH] don't forget accessibility constraints when coming up with the style guide. e.g. some readers are red/green colorblind. ✅❌ are good in that they are legible even without color.
```

* [Ryan] Thoughts about completing TOML->JSON conversion table: https://docs.python.org/3/library/tomllib.html#conversion-table and the TOML spec: https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0#spec

## Reports and celebrations

- PEP 732 ("The Python Documentation Editorial Board") has been submitted to the steering council [python/steering-council#220](https://github.com/python/steering-council/issues/220)

- [Jim] FYI, Unicode Standard is changing form of authoritative standard documents from PDF to HTML, with corresponding change to document production tooling. If this is interesting I can provide more info. I am in the working group which is working on the new tooling.

## Follow-ups from previous meeting(s)

* [Petr] [Railroad diagrams](https://discuss.python.org/t/36709/20)
  * Streams have kinda been on other topics too

* Analytics (Plausible) - CAM sent an e-mail, no reply yet

>     * CAM sent multiole followups
>     * Hugo sent a followup two weeks ago

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    * CAM sent multiple follow-ups
    * Hugo sent a follow-up two weeks ago
```

    * Discussion on core dev Discord that is supportive
    * Still no reply... :(

* As a beginner, what's a good starting point?
  * There are some "easy" issues, although they can occasionally not be actually-easy.

>   * Interested in documentation, look at diataxis and make changes?
>     * Diataxis is kinda abstract for newcomers.
>   *

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * Interested in documentation, look at Diátaxis and make changes?
    * Diátaxis is kinda abstract for newcomers.
```
